# Weekly Note 5/1 - 5/7

## Mini-goals this week
- [libnfd](https://github.com/izgzhen/nfd)
    - [x] Write complete set of rust-style bindings
    - [ ] Keep testing, and solve the issues
        - https://github.com/izgzhen/nfd/issues/5
        - https://github.com/izgzhen/nfd/issues/4
- [x] Land PR [Fixes related to File API](https://github.com/servo/servo/pull/10873)
- [ ] Tracking the [`BlobPart` issue](https://github.com/servo/servo/issues/10911)
- [ ] Analyze the File API test suite "FAIL" cases and file more issues discussing the problem
- [x] Investigate the following issues
    + [Preliminary design](../notes/file-support-design-doc.md)

## Process isolation and Sandboxing
From Manish:

> Currently there's only one place where the script gets access to on-disk files; that is when the user selects a file to upload -- the file is accessible as an attribute on the file input. To make this secure, we need the resource thread (or other task in the trusted root process) to spawn the upload dialog; create a Rust File object, give it a UUID, store it in a map, and pass the UUID on to the script which stores it inside the DOM File object. Any time the script wishes to read the DOM File object, it requests the relevant bits from the resource task, identifying the file with the UUID.

> As mentioned in email, we need to be careful about process isolation here. The script task should never be reading files directly, nor should it be possible for the script task to ask another process to read an arbitrary file for it. Instead, the script task should ask the resource task to spawn a file dialog, and the resource task should return some handle through which the script task can refer to the file.

> One thing you may want to account for is sandboxing. In multiprocess mode, Servo's script process is sandboxed and can't access the filesystem or the network. So all the code that actually reads from the filesystem will need to be in the resource task (or somewhere else). Additionally, it should be designed such that if a script process is compromised and can run arbitrary code, it cannot read arbitrary on-disk files by asking the resource task; it should only be able to read files which it is allowed to.

## IRC discussion
Is it okay for the file to change between multiple reads? What about change in a single read? What implication it has on implementation?

About the unique identifier, `ctime` looks like a better choice over `mtime`, but needs to consider Windows here.

If we want to save a copy of file after the first read (Compared to read for every request), where should we save the copy at?

For example, the following code:

```js
var f = e.files[0];
reader.onload = ...;
reader.readAsText(f);
setTimeout(function() {
    reader.readAsText(f); // Will the result be the same?
}, 10000); // and we modify the file at that period
```
The reason caching it in the resource task is bad is because it needs to be copied across a process. It's possible but nontrivial to make it work cross-process.

So assuming we cache it in the Blob object (script thread) what implication does it have? *Does* it need to check if the file is modified anyway? Then what about the `read` event of `FileReader`. I suppose that an API like this has no where to cache its result and it looks not very proper to cache the DOMString or whatever processed format in the Blob either.

About file locking: Windows lock files by default, while POSIX doesn't. But Rust unifies the semantics and doesn't lock by default.






